Workflow.md, before:

# Portfolio 2: Workflow

This is the second entry to the portfolio, where I will be focusing on the tasks given by my lecturer, Brian Davison.
The tasks for this week are to show that I know how to use the workflow tools in [GitHub](https://github.com/), 
as well carrying out a series of operations on GitHub.

I will do this by making use of screenshots and providing detailed explanations where necessary. 

Afterwards, I will reflect on these tasks and discuss any difficulties faced while doing them and how I resolved them.

## Workflow Tools

The tools which were made use of are contained within this [GitHub Flow](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/github-flow) 
and the information inside is what my team has agreed upon. It should also be known, that the team is making use of a [Kanban Board](https://www.atlassian.com/agile/kanban/boards)
using a webite called [Zube.io](https://zube.io/docs) which has been integrated with the teams GitHub repository. We are also making use of [Discord](https://www.discord.com) for active communication.

The kanban board, described simply, is an online taskboard, where tasks can be listed and people with access to the board can take a task and do it.
They come with a lot of additional functionality and flexability, for example, we chose the sections we wanted to list and gave them names. It is able
to update GitHub in real time, which makes tracking issues and who is resolving them easy to see. 

## Tasks

The tasks I received are as follows:

- Accept a task from the project backlog
- Update the task information appropriately
- Update the task board appropriately
- Complete the development task on a feature branch
- Commit your changes with appropriate comments
- Check your work against the Definition of Done (DoD)
- Make a pull request

I will tackle each of these tasks in order and where necessary, provide screenshots.

### Accepting a task

Accepting a task from the project backlog on GitHub is easy due to the kanban integration.

Commit message:

Another update incase the computer breaks

Workflow.md, after:

# Portfolio 2: Workflow

This is the second entry to the portfolio, where I will be focusing on the tasks given by my lecturer, Brian Davison.
The tasks for this week are to show that I know how to use the workflow tools in [GitHub](https://github.com/), 
as well carrying out a series of operations on GitHub.

I will do this by making use of screenshots and providing detailed explanations where necessary. 

Afterwards, I will reflect on these tasks and discuss any difficulties faced while doing them and how I resolved them.

## Workflow Tools

The tools which were made use of are contained within this [GitHub Flow](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/github-flow) 
and the information inside is what my team has agreed upon. It should also be known, that the team is making use of a [Kanban Board](https://www.atlassian.com/agile/kanban/boards)
using a webite called [Zube.io](https://zube.io/docs) which has been integrated with the teams GitHub repository. We are also making use of [Discord](https://www.discord.com) for active communication.

The kanban board, described simply, is an online taskboard, where tasks can be listed and people with access to the board can take a task and do it.
They come with a lot of additional functionality and flexability, for example, we chose the sections we wanted to list and gave them names. It is able
to update GitHub in real time, which makes tracking issues and who is resolving them easy to see. 

## Tasks

The tasks I received are as follows:

- Accept a task from the project backlog
- Update the task information appropriately
- Update the task board appropriately
- Complete the development task on a feature branch
- Commit your changes with appropriate comments
- Check your work against the Definition of Done (DoD)
- Make a pull request

I will tackle each of these tasks in order and where necessary, provide screenshots.

### Accepting a task

Accepting a task from the project backlog on GitHub is easy due to the kanban integration. Simply click the
"Issues" button at the top of the GitHub repository to view the active issues. Then, you can choose the issue 
to work on, then when the task is chosen, you can assign yourself to the task, as shown below.

| ![3 steps to assign](images/Assigning.png "This shows the 3 steps involved to assign a task to yourself") |
|:--:|
| <b> Fig.1 - 3 steps to assign a task in GitHub </b> |

### Update the task information

Before or after accepting the task, the user is able to leave a comment. It may be reasonable to leave a comment
with the date that you take the task, as well as when you would expect to hand it in.

### Update the task board appropriately

Updating the task board is made easy with kanban, it can be done on both GitHub and Zube.io. Since the previous example
was shown on GitHub, I will show the process on Zube.io for this step.
